# What Makes Writing Important?

For a while now, I have wanted to write more. When I first got this urge, I tried to come up with a bunch of ideas for essays I could write. One of the first things that came to mind was to write about writing. Why did I want to do it more? What did I think was so important about it? Here I am finally answering some of these questions.

I think writing is important because it forces us to slow down our thoughts. In our brains, it is possible to think in terms of multiple overlapping abstract ideas at a time. When writing, we are forced to consider one word at a time. Multiple words cannot come in the same position in a phrase, and multiple phrases cannot come in the same position in a paragraph. Words must follow each other in a sequence adhering to some grammar and the thoughts they seek to remain honest to. Since ideas take many sentences to be expressed, and sentences require many words, and each word requires careful consideration, it is natural to see how we might need to slow the pace of the thoughts thrashing about in our minds.

Why should we want to slow down our thoughts? Because we are better able to grasp them that way. Trying to hold onto a fleeting thought can feel like taking a picture of a fast-moving object — the result is often blurry and lackluster. When we sit still with our thoughts we are able to converse with them. We may more readily inspect their true significance and question their origins and motives. Slowing down our thoughts helps us refine and frame them better.

I think writing is important because thoughts often aren't words. It is difficult to represent complex concepts and emotions with words. Often times we experience an intimate understanding of a feeling yet we struggle to map it to words. If we can learn to paint such feelings and inklings with language, we might end up better understanding and appreciating them.

I think writing is important because it requires we be intentional with the words we pick and the language we meld. When we speak in conversation, we lose the luxury of stopping, pondering, and shopping around for the most delightful words we may use to express ourselves. We must respond promptly and efficiently. Generally we are not to be flowery or cute with our prose. When we write, we are free to stop and smell the roses. We can be formal and curt. Or, we can choose to take our time and linger with our sentences, not leaving a detail behind or a noun without an adjective.

I think writing is important because it pulls us in so many different directions. Whenever I set out to write to address a certain question, I will examine it and come out with more questions than I had started with, just as though I were turning over stones in a forest to find dozens of bugs and worms crawling out from under. The questions that emerge through thinking and writing should not be seen as a hinderance to answering our initial question. On the contrary, we should be thankful for them: What would we do if we didn't have anything to ponder anymore?

I think writing is important because it is fun. I know this because I had fun writing this. Maybe I should write more.
